welcome I'm chef Eric Crowley owner of
the culinary classroom in Los Angeles
and today we are going to be making a
creme anglaise with brandy let's get
started we are going to need 1 pint of
heavy cream that's also known as 2 cups
5 egg yolks and 4 ounces of granulated
sugar and when we flavor the creme
anglaise we're going to utilize a little
bit of vanilla extract one to two
teaspoons and finally one tablespoon of
brandy we're going to begin scalding our
dairy results in taking our heavy cream
putting it into a medium sized pot a lot
of pastry chefs will take about half of
their sugar and slowly pour it over the
cream the remaining half is going to
come into play later on the reason why
patients do this quite often is they say
that the sugar helps keep the dairy from
burning and we're going to start to
bring that up to just below a boil
scalding what we're looking for when we
scald is you're looking for bubbles to
come around the rim of the pot letting
us know that it's just about ready to
break a boil while that's happening we
go ahead and proceed to combine our eggs
and our sugar a lot of chefs will tell
you that it's really important that you
don't start to mix your sugar and your
egg yolks together too early if you wind
up combining them too early and you let
them sit after blending them like this
the sugar is hygroscopic it's going to
wind up pulling out all the moisture out
of the egg yolks and your what you're
going to be left with is really grainy
consistency of sugar in the bottom of
the bowl no visible egg anymore at all
the sugar will absorb it all and it's
what pastry chefs call burning our dairy
here is scalded we're starting to see
some bubbles around the rim of the pot
and at that point we're ready to combine
the two if we wind up taking this hot
liquid however and we dump it right into
these eggs what's going to happen is the
hot liquid which is hovering at around
200 degrees right now is going to wind
up cooking the eggs and they're going to
scramble so one of the things that we do
is we gradually introduce the hot liquid
into the eggs and a process called
tempering going to take my hot liquid
and slowly pour in
liquid into the bowl while I'm
constantly whipping it what this does is
this is gonna bring up the temperature
of the eggs and cool off the temperature
of the hot dairy so the eggs don't
scramble very have some hot water you
can tell from the steam that's floating
up on top it's just below a boil we take
our bowl set it over the pot lower the
heat and then we want to begin stirring
it really important that we give it a
gentle stir and keep the egg mixture
moving if you let it sit in one spot for
too long the eggs are going to scramble
you're gonna get a big thick layer of
cooked egg on the edge of your spatula
and also your vanilla sauce is going to
have it decidedly cooked egg taste to it
which is something that we're not
looking for as I continue to stir notice
I'm going to take the spatula and go all
around the circumference of the liquid
and all over the bottom of the bowl want
to keep that mixture moving not a bad
idea occasionally to pick up your bowl
and make sure your water underneath is
not boiling after several moments you'll
actually notice that the liquid inside
the bowl is going to increase in
viscosity as you start to stir it around
you're going to notice the liquid as the
spatula moves throughout it is going to
be considerably thicker and the sauce
consistency that were commonly looking
for for a sauce of this type is what the
French called Mapei so the classic nap a
test a spoon is going to wind up working
best a metal spoon so the sauce has some
surface to stick to a plastic spoon or
something like this silicone spatula is
not going to give you a really accurate
feel for it because the sauce is just
going to slide right off of those two
surfaces and wind up taking a metal
spoon dip it into the sauce the sauce
should coat the back of the spoon very
very lightly and we should be able to
take our finger and cut across that
coating and that coating that I made
should not drip back down that's a
really good nap a-ok and you can see all
the sauce is slightly thicker this is
ready to cool off and store larger
batches would be more practically cooled
off by taking your bowl and setting it
inside a larger bowl that has some ice
water in it making what's called an ice
bath a smaller batch like this will be
fine to just stir it
for several moments out of room
temperature and then go ahead and stick
it into the refrigerator once the
thickening takes place we can go ahead
and we can add in our flavoring earlier
I was mentioning some vanilla extract we
can take a little bit of vanilla and
pour that in about a teaspoon or so mind
up taking about a teaspoon of brandy or
tablespoon of brandy and stir it on in
get a blended really well give it a
taste and if you want some more brandy
flavor you know what to do
that is our Mon glaze with a brandy
sauce really great to put over a
chocolate souffle thanks for watching be
sure to click on know the links so you
can get other recipes if you don't see
something that interests you email a
request to requests at Mahalo com also
be sure to subscribe so you can get lots
of wonderful additional information
thanks and I'll see you soon